[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Functional
Programming to the Rescue.
So one of the reasons why after four
years, Functional Programming is suddenly
become important is because it contains
the solutions to these problems.
And we've got a lot of
history with this stuff.
And going back to future which came out
of Dataflow and LISP, future is an object
which represents something which isn't
knowable yet, but might be in the future.
So you can begin interacting with
the future object, and eventually it will
communicate your interest to
whatever the answer turns out to be.
Futures had a big influence
on a feature called Promises.
Promises were discovered in
a company that I founded called
Electric Communities for
a language that we called E.
Promises have since escaped from E and
moved into Python and
then into JavaScript where unfortunately
they've mutated kind of badly.
But there's still a really
interesting mechanism for
managing asynchronicity
in distributed systems.
The house call community has
begun to Monads, and Arrows,
Microsoft has something called RX,
reactive extensions which
allows for composing of events streams,
very interesting stuff.
Unfortunately it's never been documented
accurate or documented sufficiently.
>> Speaker 2: We do have a course
by which covers essentially
the observable pattern and
how RX and are working everything.
Just throwing it out there.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
It's good stuff.
It's just I wouldn't use it because
if I'm putting it into production,
I want to know how it works but
it's been inspirational.
It's created a new form of programming
called Functional Reactive Programming and
examples include Flapjacks,
bacon, and element, and others.
But occurred to me that this
list just isn't long enough.
I'm adding my own thing to it and
that is a library called RQ.
RQ is a library for managing
asynchronicity and server applications.
The thing that distinguishes it
from the others that I mention,
is that this one was designed
specifically for what you do in servers.
None of the other ones were.
Everything can be made to work but
I think for
what you do in servers this one
is gonna work better for you.
RQ is a very small library,
that only contains four or
five methods depending on how you count.
If you count in Java, it's five,
if you count in JavaScript, it's four.
So let's look at the four,
cuz once you do these four functions,
that's the whole thing.
So a sequence takes an array
of requester functions and
returns a function that will
call them one at a time
passing the result of the previous
requestor to the next requestor.
Here for example we're gonna make a getnav
requestor which will first read the file,
and then get the preference,
and then get the custom nav.
Then we can do things in parallel.
Now we're not adding parallelism to
JavaScript, what we're doing is,
allowing JavaScript to exploit
the natural parallelism of the universe.
Cuz it's likely that you're gonna be
calling services that are in different
boxes or different networks.
It's all going out in the universe,
runs asynchronously all the time so
you get to take advantage of that.
Here we're gonna make a get
stuff constructor which will,
when it's called get the Nav, get
the Ads and get the Message Of The Day,
it will get them all at once.
The cost of this will be whichever
of these three is the slowest.
Then we can also have optional things.
We can provide a second
array of optional things.
We will also go and get the horoscope and
the gossip but we will not wait for
those if they don't if either of those
dozen complete before the main three
complete, we'll just cancel them and
return with whatever has been finished.
We can deal with races.
These are the good kinds of races.
We can start several things at once and
whichever the first one to finish
successfully, that's the one we get.
We might be having trouble
with our Ad network.
We're dealing with three Ad networks and
they're all too slow.
We tell them, we're gonna have a race.
Whenever we have a position, we will ask
you and two of your competitors, and
whoever comes back first with
a suitable placement will win.
We can also deal with fallbacks,
so we can try one thing.
If that fails, we'll try another.
We're gonna do that to get on our weather.
We'll first go to our local Cache.
If that fails, we'll go to our localDB.
If that fails, we go to the remoteDB.
Now in theory, the fastest way to get
the weather would be to have a race, but
the whole point of having this kind
of hierarchy is that we want to go to
the remoteDB only as a last resort,
and fall backs allow us to do that.
That's it,
that's the whole metrics for RQ.
We can start all the requesters at once,
or we can start them one at a time,
and then we can then take one result or
we can take all of the results.